docV1 (#4051)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-cpp: doc/PerformanceTesting.md

# Performance Testing

## Writing a test 

Adding tests , at the moment relies in making modifications in a couple of repositories. 

## Azure-SDK-For-Cpp repo

E.G. https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-cpp/tree/main/sdk/storage/azure-storage-blobs 

### Location

Performance tests are located under **"test/perf"** folder under the service folder(e.g. alongside ut folder).

> The perf test folder should be added in the parent CMakeLists.txt guarded by the **BUILD_PERF_TEST** flag.

Reviewer: Is it `BUILD_PERF_TEST` or `BUILD_PERFORMANCE_TESTS`? The text and sample appear to disagree.

Author: the second one

E.G.

```markdown

    if(BUILD_PERFORMANCE_TESTS)
        add_subdirectory(test/perf)
    endif()

```

### Structure

As any other CPP project you will need a **CMakeLists.txt** file , along side **src** and **inc** folders

> #### Inc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Contents of the **inc** directory
```

Under inc folder create a subfolder structure following your namespace hierarchy ending with another test folder since these are in the ...Test namespace.

E.G. test/perf/inc/azure/storage/blobs/test

The tests are defined in .hpp files under this folder. 

##### Test definition

In a .hpp file we define a class that will be contain the tests methods. The class is defined in the ::Test namespace for your service. 

The class will inherit from the **PerfTest** base  class and will override several methods as follows:
- Constructor(Azure::Perf::TestOptions options) : PerfTest(options)
  Options field are passed from the perf test framework and constain the various options defined for running the test.
- void Run(Azure::Core::Context const&) override {...}.

>   Runs the actual test code. We recommend doing as little extra work here besides the actual relevant code to be measured. Avoid assert, if etc methods as ant extra work will skew the data.

Reviewer: Not 100% about the wording of the 2nd sentence in line 47.
```suggestion
  Runs the actual test code. It is strongly recommended that the test code does as little extra work here as possible, it should consist solely of the actual test invocation. The test code should all assert, conditional statements ("if"/"else") or unnecessary method calls as any extra work will skew the data.
```

- std::vector<Azure::Perf::TestOption> GetTestOptions() override 
  Defines the various parameters for the test run that can be passed to the test from the performance framework. The perf framework uses these params to run various combinations(e.g. blob size)
- static Azure::Perf::TestMetadata GetTestMetadata()
  Returns TestMetadate object used to identify the test. 

> #### Src 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Contents of the **src** directory
```

Contains one cpp file that contains the main method defintion 

```cpp
    int main(int argc, char** argv)
    {
    std::cout << "SERVICE VERSION " << VCPKG_SERVICE_VERSION << std::endl;
    // Create the test list
    std::vector<Azure::Perf::TestMetadata> tests{
        Service::Namespace::Test::TestName::GetTestMetadata(),
    };
    
    Azure::Perf::Program::Run(Azure::Core::Context::ApplicationContext, tests, argc, argv);

    return 0;
    }
```

#### CMakeLists.txt

Beyond the regular cmake defintion in your cmake file make sure to add 

```makefile
include(AzureVcpkg)
az_vcpkg_integrate()
...
include(PerfTest)
SETPERFDEPS(azure-storage-blobs-cpp VCPKG_SERVICE_VERSION)
```

> The crucial part here is the SetPerfDeps cmake macro. \

Reviewer: Is this hard coded return necessary? Or can it be a separate paragraph?

> The perf framework will set an environment variable based on the service name with the value representing a version, thus allowing to run the tests against diffrent VCPKG published versions. If the env is not defined then the test will build against the current source code of the service. 

Reviewer: What is the environment variable name?

Author: it does not concern the user, the thing is set up so theat you don't have to know or care what the env is

Reviewer: If it doesn't matter to the customer, why mention it?

There can be multiple set perf for each dependency of the service ( e.g. identity, storage). There is a bug in the main perf framework that causes some issues with multiple packages with different major versions, but it will get fixed.

> ## Pipeline definition

Reviewer: Where does the pipeline definition file go? What do the contents of this file mean? What is customizable by the service client owner and what is required?

    EnvVars: 
      # This is set in the InstallLanguageSteps 
      VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES_SECRET: $(VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES_SECRET)
  
```

The fields of interest here are the parameters:
- Tests which define which test s run in this pipeline ( which tests are available)
- Arguments which allow to filter which subset of parameters are acceptable for the tests from the plurality in the framework
- ServiceDirectory which represents the root folder of the service
- Services which represents the services which these tests target. 
  
## Resources

If the tests require certain resources to exist beforehand the pipeline can deploy them based on the presence of the **perf-resources.bicep** file which will be used to deploy the required resources defined within. 

## Azure-SDK-Tools repo

## Location 

The performance automation is located under azure-sdk-tools\tools\perf-automation\Azure.Sdk.Tools.PerfAutomation folder. 
(https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/tree/main/tools/perf-automation/Azure.Sdk.Tools.PerfAutomation) 

## Test definition

in the above mentioned folder resided the test defintion file "tests.yml". 

### The tests exists in other languages

> If the test exists in other languages then making the CPP version visible to the framework requires adding under **Service**/**Languages** an entry with the name **CPP** followed by the pakages and versions available for the testing(this ties into the CMakeLists SetPerfDeps macro).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the test exists in other languages then making the CPP version visible to the framework requires adding an entry with the name **CPP** under **Service**/**Languages**  followed by the pakages and versions available for the testing(this ties into the CMakeLists SetPerfDeps macro).
```

The perf test folder should be added in the parent CMakeLists.txt guarded by the **BUILD_PERFORMANCE_TESTS** flag.

E.G.

```markdown

    if(BUILD_PERFORMANCE_TESTS)
        add_subdirectory(test/perf)
    endif()

```

### Structure

As any other CPP project you will need a **CMakeLists.txt** file , along side **src** and **inc** folders

#### Contents of the **inc** directory

Under inc folder create a subfolder structure following your namespace hierarchy ending with another test folder since these are in the ...Test namespace.

E.G. test/perf/inc/azure/storage/blobs/test

The tests are defined in .hpp files under this folder. 

##### Test definition

In a .hpp file we define a class that will be contain the tests methods. The class is defined in the ::Test namespace for your service. 

The class will inherit from the **PerfTest** base  class and will override several methods as follows:
- Constructor(Azure::Perf::TestOptions options) : PerfTest(options)
  Options field are passed from the perf test framework and constain the various options defined for running the test.
- void Run(Azure::Core::Context const&) override {...}.

>   Runs the actual test code. It is strongly recommended that the test code does as little extra work here as possible, it should consist solely of the actual test invocation. The test code should all assert, conditional statements ("if"/"else") or unnecessary method calls as any extra work will skew the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Runs the actual test code. It is strongly recommended that the test code does as little extra work here as possible, it should consist solely of the actual test invocation. The test code should remove all assert, conditional statements ("if"/"else") or any other unnecessary work as any extra work will skew the results.
```

- std::vector<Azure::Perf::TestOption> GetTestOptions() override 
  Defines the various parameters for the test run that can be passed to the test from the performance framework. The perf framework uses these params to run various combinations(e.g. blob size)
- static Azure::Perf::TestMetadata GetTestMetadata()
  Returns TestMetadate object used to identify the test. 

#### Contents of the **src** directory

Contains one cpp file that contains the main method defintion 

```cpp
    int main(int argc, char** argv)
    {
    std::cout << "SERVICE VERSION " << VCPKG_SERVICE_VERSION << std::endl;
    // Create the test list
    std::vector<Azure::Perf::TestMetadata> tests{
        Service::Namespace::Test::TestName::GetTestMetadata(),
    };
    
    Azure::Perf::Program::Run(Azure::Core::Context::ApplicationContext, tests, argc, argv);

    return 0;
    }
```

#### CMakeLists.txt

Beyond the regular cmake defintion in your cmake file make sure to add 

```makefile
include(AzureVcpkg)
az_vcpkg_integrate()
...
include(PerfTest)
SETPERFDEPS(azure-storage-blobs-cpp VCPKG_SERVICE_VERSION)
```

> The crucial part here is the SetPerfDeps cmake macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The crucial part here is the SETPERFDEPS cmake macro.
```

The perf framework will set an environment variable based on the service name with the value representing a version, thus allowing to run the tests against diffrent VCPKG published versions. If the env is not defined then the test will build against the current source code of the service. 

> There can be multiple set perf for each dependency of the service ( e.g. identity, storage). There is a bug in the main perf framework that causes some issues with multiple packages with different major versions, but it will get fixed.

Reviewer: Do you have an outstanding issue to remove the "There is a bug in the main" text once the bug in the main perf framework is fixed? 

If not, then IMHO this sentence shouldn't be there, because it will confuse people later on.

## Pipeline definition

> The file should be names perf.yml. or something similar, and should be located in the service directory that is to be tested. While not set in stone, since when creating a new pipeline in Azure we can point it an any place in the repo, it is recommended for consistency and to keep service related resources in the service folder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file should be named `perf.yml`, and should be located in the service directory that is to be tested, for consistency and to keep service related resources in the service folder. 
```

  template: /eng/pipelines/templates/jobs/perf.yml
  parameters:
    ServiceDirectory: service folder
    Services: "^service name$"
    PackageVersions: ${{ parameters.PackageVersions }}
    Tests: ${{ parameters.Tests }}
    Arguments: ${{ parameters.Arguments }}
    Iterations: ${{ parameters.Iterations }}
    AdditionalArguments: ${{ parameters.AdditionalArguments }}
    InstallLanguageSteps: 
      - pwsh: |
          Write-Host "##vso[task.setvariable variable=VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES_SECRET;issecret=true;]clear;x-azblob,https://cppvcpkgcache.blob.core.windows.net/public-vcpkg-container,,read"
        displayName: Set Vcpkg Variables

    EnvVars: 
      # This is set in the InstallLanguageSteps 
      VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES_SECRET: $(VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES_SECRET)
  
```

The fields of interest here are the parameters:
- Tests which define which test s run in this pipeline ( which tests are available)
- Arguments which allow to filter which subset of parameters are acceptable for the tests from the plurality in the framework
- ServiceDirectory which represents the root folder of the service
- Services which represents the services which these tests target. 
  
## Resources

> If the tests require certain resources to exist beforehand the pipeline can deploy them based on the presence of the **perf-resources.bicep** file which will be used to deploy the required resources defined within. 

Reviewer: What if the test requires resources beyond those which can be expressed in a bicep file? Can the new-testresources.ps1 script be used instead of the bicep file?

Author: at the moment it uses bicep files, which are supported by azure https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview?tabs=bicep 

perf.yml -> /eng/common/TestResources/deploy-test-resources.yml -> eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1 -- deploys bicep

## Azure-SDK-Tools repo

## Location 

The performance automation is located under azure-sdk-tools\tools\perf-automation\Azure.Sdk.Tools.PerfAutomation folder. 
(https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/tree/main/tools/perf-automation/Azure.Sdk.Tools.PerfAutomation) 

## Test definition

in the above mentioned folder resided the test defintion file "tests.yml". 

### The tests exists in other languages

If the test exists in other languages then making the CPP version visible to the framework requires adding an entry with the name **CPP** under **Service**/**Languages**  followed by the pakages and versions available for the testing(this ties into the CMakeLists SetPerfDeps macro).

Next under the **Tests**/**Test** node with the desired name add the CPP test name. In this section mind the aArguments list , this ies with the regex in the cpp sdk pipeline.yml definition. 

> ### The test does not exist in other laguages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The test does not exist in other languages
```
